src/community/index.md, before:

---
title: Community
lastUpdate: 2015-11-10
layout: page.jade
---

## Community

WildFly Swarm is open source software with a vibrant community. Our community values
contributions from all its members, as such we have a [Code of Conduct](/community/code-of-conduct). If you are
getting started and have questions, would like to contribute to the development
of the project, or just want to chat with other users and developers, join us
on Freenode or our Google Group.

* **[#wildfly-swarm on Freenode](http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=wildfly-swarm)**
   (with [logging](http://transcripts.jboss.org/channel/irc.freenode.org/%23wildfly-swarm/))
* **[Google Group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/wildfly-swarm)**
* **[Twitter](http://twitter.com/wildflyswarm)**

<a class="twitter-timeline" href="https://twitter.com/wildflyswarm" data-widget-id="677243276056010754" height="300" width="250" data-chrome="nofooter">Tweets by @wildflyswarm</a>
<script>!function(d,s,id){var js,fjs=d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0],p=/^http:/.test(d.location)?'http':'https';if(!d.getElementById(id)){js=d.createElement(s);js.id=id;js.src=p+"://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js";fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js,fjs);}}(document,"script","twitter-wjs");</script>

Commit message:

Update contributing and code-style documents, and add reference to them from community page

src/community/index.md, after:

---
title: Community
lastUpdate: 2016-02-24
layout: page.jade
---

## Community

WildFly Swarm is open source software with a vibrant community. Our community values
contributions from all its members, as such we have a
[Code of Conduct](/community/code-of-conduct).

If you are interested in contributing to WildFly Swarm, that's great! We love
contributions! To help make it easier getting started, we have
[instructions](/community/contributing) on how to setup your environment and
submit changes for review.

If you are getting started and have questions, would like to contribute
to the development of the project, or just want to chat with other users and
developers, join us on Freenode or our Google Group.

* **[#wildfly-swarm on Freenode](http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=wildfly-swarm)**
   (with [logging](http://transcripts.jboss.org/channel/irc.freenode.org/%23wildfly-swarm/))
* **[Google Group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/wildfly-swarm)**
* **[Twitter](http://twitter.com/wildflyswarm)**

<a class="twitter-timeline" href="https://twitter.com/wildflyswarm" data-widget-id="677243276056010754" height="300" width="250" data-chrome="nofooter">Tweets by @wildflyswarm</a>
<script>!function(d,s,id){var js,fjs=d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0],p=/^http:/.test(d.location)?'http':'https';if(!d.getElementById(id)){js=d.createElement(s);js.id=id;js.src=p+"://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js";fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js,fjs);}}(document,"script","twitter-wjs");</script>
