src/posts/announce-1.0.0.Final.adoc, before:

---
title: Announcement 1.0.0.Final
publishDate: 2016-06-27
modifyDate: 2016-06-27
author: The WildFly Swarm Team
layout: post.jade
draft: true
---

== What's New?

* A few bugfixes.
* Update Camel fraction

++++
<!-- more -->
++++

=== A few bugfixes

It's been but the work of a moment since our 1.0.0.CR2 release a week ago,
and for the most part, just a few little bugs have been squished.

This includes, mostly, making the Jolokia fraction once again work.

=== Update Camel

We've push the Camel fractoin from 1.0.4 to 1.1.0.

== Changelog

Release notes for 1.0.0.Final are available https://issues.jboss.org/secure/ConfigureReport.jspa?versions=12330910&versions=12330857&versions=12330936&versions=12330915&sections=all&style=html&selectedProjectId=12317020&reportKey=org.jboss.labs.jira.plugin.release-notes-report-plugin%3Areleasenotes&Next=Next[here].

++++
<ul>
  <li>[ <a href="https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-529">SWARM-529</a> ] Jolokia doesn't work</li>
  <li>[ <a href="https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-530">SWARM-530</a> ] ExceptionMapper (for JsonProcessingExceptions) ignored since 1.0.0.CR2</li>
  <li>[ <a href="https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-532">SWARM-532</a> ] fat finger spelling for value of SwarmProperties.DATASOURCE_CONNECTION_URL</li>
  <li>[ <a href="https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-533">SWARM-533</a> ] Can't set custom formatter </li>
  <li>[ <a href="https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-495">SWARM-495</a> ] Upgrade to wildfly-swarm-camel-1.1.0</li>
</ul>
++++

== Resources

Per usual, we tend to hang out on `irc.freenode.net` in `#wildfly-swarm`.

All bug and feature-tracking is kept in http://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM[JIRA].

Examples are available in https://github.com/wildfly-swarm/wildfly-swarm-examples/tree/1.0.0.CR2.

Documentation for this release is http://wildfly-swarm.io/documentation/1-0-0-CR2[available].

== Thank you, Contributors!

We appreciate all of our contributors since the beginning of time:

- Alessio Soldano
- Alex Soto
- Amann Malik
- Antonino Cucchiara
- Ben Browning
- Ben Tomasini
- Bernard Tison
- Bob McWhirter
- Christian Posta
- Dominik Sandjaja
- Eddú Meléndez
- George Gastaldi
- Harald Wellmann
- Heiko Braun
- James Netherton
- James Perkins
- Jeff Mesnil
- Jeff Zhang
- Jens De Temmerman
- Jim Crossley
- John D. Ament
- John Hovell
- Ken Finnigan
- Kylin Soong
- Lance Ball
- Lukáš Vlček
- Marco Hofstetter
- Mark Little
- Martin Kouba
- Matti Tahvonen
- Paris Apostolopoulos
- Phillip Furtado
- Ralf Battenfeld
- Riccardo Merolla
- Richard Lucas
- Scott Stark
- Sergio Moretto
- Summers Pittman
- Thomas Andersen
- Thomas Diesler
- Thomas Meyer
- Toby Crawley
- Tomas Remes
- William Antônio Siqueira
- Yoshimasa Tanabe
- Arun Gupta
- Helio Frota
- Yoshimasa Tanabe
- John Clingan
- Philippe Fichet
- Sassko
- Thomas Andersen

Commit message:

Add a 'what is' back to the head for this release.

src/posts/announce-1.0.0.Final.adoc, after:

---
title: Announcement 1.0.0.Final
publishDate: 2016-06-27
modifyDate: 2016-06-27
author: The WildFly Swarm Team
layout: post.jade
draft: true
---

=== What is WildFly Swarm?

WildFly Swarm is the decomposition and reconstitution of the popular
WildFly Java Application Server in order to support _just enough app-server_
for microservice type applications.

Each portion of the app-server is referred to as a _fraction_, which many times
maps to a `subsystem` from WildFly, but also may include other discrete chunks
of functionality, such as _Swagger_, _Jolokia_ or _NetflixOSS Ribbon_.

== What's New?

* A few bugfixes.
* Update Camel fraction

++++
<!-- more -->
++++

=== A few bugfixes

It's been but the work of a moment since our 1.0.0.CR2 release a week ago,
and for the most part, just a few little bugs have been squished.

This includes, mostly, making the Jolokia fraction once again work.

=== Update Camel

We've push the Camel fractoin from 1.0.4 to 1.1.0.

== Changelog

Release notes for 1.0.0.Final are available https://issues.jboss.org/secure/ConfigureReport.jspa?versions=12330910&versions=12330857&versions=12330936&versions=12330915&sections=all&style=html&selectedProjectId=12317020&reportKey=org.jboss.labs.jira.plugin.release-notes-report-plugin%3Areleasenotes&Next=Next[here].

++++
<ul>
  <li>[ <a href="https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-529">SWARM-529</a> ] Jolokia doesn't work</li>
  <li>[ <a href="https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-530">SWARM-530</a> ] ExceptionMapper (for JsonProcessingExceptions) ignored since 1.0.0.CR2</li>
  <li>[ <a href="https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-532">SWARM-532</a> ] fat finger spelling for value of SwarmProperties.DATASOURCE_CONNECTION_URL</li>
  <li>[ <a href="https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-533">SWARM-533</a> ] Can't set custom formatter </li>
  <li>[ <a href="https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-495">SWARM-495</a> ] Upgrade to wildfly-swarm-camel-1.1.0</li>
</ul>
++++

== Resources

Per usual, we tend to hang out on `irc.freenode.net` in `#wildfly-swarm`.

All bug and feature-tracking is kept in http://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM[JIRA].

Examples are available in https://github.com/wildfly-swarm/wildfly-swarm-examples/tree/1.0.0.CR2.

Documentation for this release is http://wildfly-swarm.io/documentation/1-0-0-CR2[available].

== Thank you, Contributors!

We appreciate all of our contributors since the beginning of time:

- Alessio Soldano
- Alex Soto
- Amann Malik
- Antonino Cucchiara
- Ben Browning
- Ben Tomasini
- Bernard Tison
- Bob McWhirter
- Christian Posta
- Dominik Sandjaja
- Eddú Meléndez
- George Gastaldi
- Harald Wellmann
- Heiko Braun
- James Netherton
- James Perkins
- Jeff Mesnil
- Jeff Zhang
- Jens De Temmerman
- Jim Crossley
- John D. Ament
- John Hovell
- Ken Finnigan
- Kylin Soong
- Lance Ball
- Lukáš Vlček
- Marco Hofstetter
- Mark Little
- Martin Kouba
- Matti Tahvonen
- Paris Apostolopoulos
- Phillip Furtado
- Ralf Battenfeld
- Riccardo Merolla
- Richard Lucas
- Scott Stark
- Sergio Moretto
- Summers Pittman
- Thomas Andersen
- Thomas Diesler
- Thomas Meyer
- Toby Crawley
- Tomas Remes
- William Antônio Siqueira
- Yoshimasa Tanabe
- Arun Gupta
- Helio Frota
- Yoshimasa Tanabe
- John Clingan
- Philippe Fichet
- Sassko
- Thomas Andersen
