src/posts/announce-1.0.0.Alpha7.adoc, before:

---
title: Announcement 1.0.0.Alpha7
publishDate: 2016-02-01
modifyDate: 2016-02-01
author: The WildFly Swarm Team
layout: post.jade
draft: true
---

== What is WildFly Swarm?

WildFly Swarm is the decomposition and reconstitution of the popular 
WildFly Java Application Server in order to support _just enough app-server_
for microservice type applications.

Each portion of the app-server is referred to as a _fraction_, which many times
maps to a `subsystem` from WildFly, but also may include other discrete chunks
of functionality, such as _Swagger_, _Jolokia_ or _NetflixOSS Ribbon_.

== What's New in 1.0.0.Alpha7?

There's slightly less stuf in this release since 1.0.0.Alpha6, but then
again, it marks our new trend of fortnightly releases.

* Based upon WildFly 10.0.0.Final
* link:/posts/initial-support-for-declarative-configuration/[Declarative Configuration] (`standalone.xml`)
* Swagger UI
* Generalize service-discovery topology SPI
* Service-discovery via link:http://consul.io/[Consul]
* `Container.createDefaultDeployment()` is now public, and can be used
   from your custom `main()` as a basis for a custom deployment.
* Update Keycloak to 1.8.0.Final

== Important Changes

In addition to the new features and bug-fixes, there are some notable changes
that you will need to undertake for your application since 1.0.0.Alpha6.


=== Topology

We've split topology bits away from the Ribbon support.  That includes
replacing `ribbon-webapp` with `topology-webapp` and changing the 
Javascript to `topology.js`.

=== Changelog

Release notes for 1.0.0.Alpha7 are available ##INSERT LINK##

=== Staffing

As you may know, the development of WildFly Swarm is supported by
http://redhat.com/[Red Hat].  Ken Finnigan has joined the project
as co-lead, and Heiko Braun has moved over from WildFly proper 
to help us bridge the gaps.

Welcome aboard!

=== Resources

Per usual, we tend to hang out on `irc.freenode.net` in `#wildfly-swarm`.

We've moved all bug and feature-tracking to http://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM[JIRA].

Examples are available in http://github.com/wildfly-swarm/wildfly-swarm-examples.

Documentation for this release is http://wildfly-swarm.io/documentation/1-0-0-Alpha7[available].

=== Thank you, Contributors!

We appreciate all of our contributors since the last release:

*Core*

* Ben Browning
* Bob McWhirter
* George Gastaldi
* Heiko Braun
* Helio Frota
* James Perkins
* John Hovell
* Ken Finnigan
* Lance Ball
* Mark Little
* Toby Crawley

*Examples*

* Ben Browning
* Bob McWhirter
* Heiko Braun
* Ken Finnigan
* Lance Ball
* Mark Little
* Toby Crawley

*Documentation*

* Ben Browning
* Bob McWhirter
* Toby Crawley
* William Antônio Siqueira

*Random other Thanks*

* Bruno Georges (Boss, Presentations)

Commit message:

Update release blog with information on driverDatasourceClassName() gotcha

src/posts/announce-1.0.0.Alpha7.adoc, after:

---
title: Announcement 1.0.0.Alpha7
publishDate: 2016-02-01
modifyDate: 2016-02-01
author: The WildFly Swarm Team
layout: post.jade
draft: true
---

== What is WildFly Swarm?

WildFly Swarm is the decomposition and reconstitution of the popular
WildFly Java Application Server in order to support _just enough app-server_
for microservice type applications.

Each portion of the app-server is referred to as a _fraction_, which many times
maps to a `subsystem` from WildFly, but also may include other discrete chunks
of functionality, such as _Swagger_, _Jolokia_ or _NetflixOSS Ribbon_.

== What's New in 1.0.0.Alpha7?

There's slightly less stuf in this release since 1.0.0.Alpha6, but then
again, it marks our new trend of fortnightly releases.

* Based upon WildFly 10.0.0.Final
* link:/posts/initial-support-for-declarative-configuration/[Declarative Configuration] (`standalone.xml`)
* Swagger UI
* Generalize service-discovery topology SPI
* Service-discovery via link:http://consul.io/[Consul]
* `Container.createDefaultDeployment()` is now public, and can be used
   from your custom `main()` as a basis for a custom deployment.
* Update Keycloak to 1.8.0.Final

== Important Changes

In addition to the new features and bug-fixes, there are some notable changes
that you will need to undertake for your application since 1.0.0.Alpha6.


=== Topology

We've split topology bits away from the Ribbon support.  That includes
replacing `ribbon-webapp` with `topology-webapp` and changing the
Javascript to `topology.js`.

=== Migration Gotcha!

If you're migrating an existing WildFly Swarm application to 1.0.0.Alpha7 and
have a custom `main()` that adds a driver or datasource, pay close attention!

Previously our examples were calling `driverDatasourceClassName()` to set the
class name on the JDBC Driver object of the `DatasourcesFraction`. This was done
in error, and now causes an issue because IronJacamar, in WildFly, is now
correctly setting the datasource class name where as it was not previously.

When setting a JBDS Driver class, now use `driverClassName()` instead
of `driverDatasourceClassName()`.

=== Changelog

Release notes for 1.0.0.Alpha7 are available ##INSERT LINK##

=== Staffing

As you may know, the development of WildFly Swarm is supported by
http://redhat.com/[Red Hat].  Ken Finnigan has joined the project
as co-lead, and Heiko Braun has moved over from WildFly proper
to help us bridge the gaps.

Welcome aboard!

=== Resources

Per usual, we tend to hang out on `irc.freenode.net` in `#wildfly-swarm`.

We've moved all bug and feature-tracking to http://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM[JIRA].

Examples are available in http://github.com/wildfly-swarm/wildfly-swarm-examples.

Documentation for this release is http://wildfly-swarm.io/documentation/1-0-0-Alpha7[available].

=== Thank you, Contributors!

We appreciate all of our contributors since the last release:

*Core*

* Ben Browning
* Bob McWhirter
* George Gastaldi
* Heiko Braun
* Helio Frota
* James Perkins
* John Hovell
* Ken Finnigan
* Lance Ball
* Mark Little
* Toby Crawley

*Examples*

* Ben Browning
* Bob McWhirter
* Heiko Braun
* Ken Finnigan
* Lance Ball
* Mark Little
* Toby Crawley

*Documentation*

* Ben Browning
* Bob McWhirter
* Toby Crawley
* William Antônio Siqueira

*Random other Thanks*

* Bruno Georges (Boss, Presentations)
