src/posts/announce-2017.1.adoc, before:

---
title: Announcing WildFly Swarm 2017.1
publishDate: 2017-01-05
modifyDate: 2017-01-05
author: The WildFly Swarm Team
layout: post.jade
---

== Announcing the first release of 2017

To celebrate National Braille Literacy Month, we're happy to announce
version 2017.1 of WildFly Swarm!

image::/images/braille.png[WildFly Swarm]

=== What's New?

* Lots of bugfixes
* Start of a http://howto.wildfly-swarm.io/[HOWTO]

=== What is WildFly Swarm?

WildFly Swarm is the decomposition and reconstitution of the popular
http://www.wildfly.org[WildFly Java Application Server] in order to support _just enough appserver_
for microservice type applications.

Each portion of the appserver is referred to as a _fraction_, which many times
maps to a `subsystem` from WildFly, but also may include other discrete chunks
of non-Java EE or WildFly functionality, such as _Swagger_, or _Jolokia_.

++++
<!-- more -->
++++

== Changelog
Release notes for 2017.1.1 are available https://issues.jboss.org/secure/ReleaseNote.jspa?projectId=12317020&version=12332051[here].

=== Bug
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-973[SWARM-973]] Java EE 7 samples: jms-xa sample requires java:/JmsXA JNDI binding (Done)
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-962[SWARM-962]] Uberjar does not handle dependencies with classifier  (Done)
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-961[SWARM-961]] Disk full after running build multiple times (Done)
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-957[SWARM-957]] Build fails when run with -Dmaven.repo.local=empty dir (Done)
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-940[SWARM-940]] NoClassDefFoundError with Enhanced JAX-RS Client (Done)
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-939[SWARM-939]] YAML error parsing Map or Properties like module-options (Done)
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-918[SWARM-918]] JBossWebContainer.setDefaultContextRoot vs. custom jboss-web.xml inside the default deployment (Done)
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-917[SWARM-917]] auto-generated-but-unused JAX-RS Application class maps to /, which hides servlets (Done)
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-915[SWARM-915]] Java EE 7 samples: security (jacc/jaspic): cascading failure, too much Swarm automagic (Done)
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-892[SWARM-892]] swarm.context.path wont work and getting errors with cdi fraction (Done)
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-877[SWARM-877]] IllegalStateException in Topology on Shutdown (Done)
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-638[SWARM-638]] Fraction auto-detection is performed when declaring dependent fractions with scope=provided  (Done)

=== Enhancement
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-943[SWARM-943]] Upgrade to wildfly-camel-4.4.0 (Done)
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-908[SWARM-908]] Separate generation of different config apis (Done)

=== Feature Request
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-893[SWARM-893]] Support Logging configuration via yaml, etc (Done)

=== Task
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-881[SWARM-881]] Remove `jgroups-module` (Done)
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-880[SWARM-880]] [spike] Quickstarts & Documentation (Done)
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-457[SWARM-457]] Remove dependency on springsource repo (Done)

== Resources

Per usual, we tend to hang out on `irc.freenode.net` in `#wildfly-swarm`.

All bug and feature-tracking is kept in http://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM[JIRA].

Examples are available in https://github.com/wildfly-swarm/wildfly-swarm-examples/tree/2017.1.1.

Documentation for this release is link:/documentation/2017-1-1[available].

== Thank you, Contributors!

We appreciate all of our contributors since the last release:

=== Documentation
* Heiko Braun
* Ken Finnigan
* Bob McWhirter
* Yeradis P. Barbosa Marrero
* Alex Soto

=== Examples
* Ken Finnigan
* Bob McWhirter
* James Netherton

=== Core
* Ken Finnigan
* George Gastaldi
* Bob McWhirter
* James Netherton
* Maciej Swiderski
* Ladislav Thon

Commit message:

Not breaking package change for JAX-RS Client API

src/posts/announce-2017.1.adoc, after:

---
title: Announcing WildFly Swarm 2017.1
publishDate: 2017-01-05
modifyDate: 2017-01-05
author: The WildFly Swarm Team
layout: post.jade
---

== Announcing the first release of 2017

To celebrate National Braille Literacy Month, we're happy to announce
version 2017.1 of WildFly Swarm!

image::/images/braille.png[WildFly Swarm]

=== What's New?

* @Service and ServiceClient package change
* Lots of bugfixes
* Start of a http://howto.wildfly-swarm.io/[HOWTO]

=== What is WildFly Swarm?

WildFly Swarm is the decomposition and reconstitution of the popular
http://www.wildfly.org[WildFly Java Application Server] in order to support _just enough appserver_
for microservice type applications.

Each portion of the appserver is referred to as a _fraction_, which many times
maps to a `subsystem` from WildFly, but also may include other discrete chunks
of non-Java EE or WildFly functionality, such as _Swagger_, or _Jolokia_.

++++
<!-- more -->
++++

== @Service and ServiceClient package change

As part of some code restructuring of the JAX-RS enhanced client API, the packages that `@Service` and `ServiceClient` are within changed.

Both classes moved from `org.wildfly.swarm.cdi.jaxrsapi` to `org.wildfly.swarm.client.jaxrs`.

Be sure to update your application code with the change!

== Changelog
Release notes for 2017.1.1 are available https://issues.jboss.org/secure/ReleaseNote.jspa?projectId=12317020&version=12332051[here].

=== Bug
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-973[SWARM-973]] Java EE 7 samples: jms-xa sample requires java:/JmsXA JNDI binding (Done)
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-962[SWARM-962]] Uberjar does not handle dependencies with classifier  (Done)
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-961[SWARM-961]] Disk full after running build multiple times (Done)
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-957[SWARM-957]] Build fails when run with -Dmaven.repo.local=empty dir (Done)
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-940[SWARM-940]] NoClassDefFoundError with Enhanced JAX-RS Client (Done)
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-939[SWARM-939]] YAML error parsing Map or Properties like module-options (Done)
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-918[SWARM-918]] JBossWebContainer.setDefaultContextRoot vs. custom jboss-web.xml inside the default deployment (Done)
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-917[SWARM-917]] auto-generated-but-unused JAX-RS Application class maps to /, which hides servlets (Done)
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-915[SWARM-915]] Java EE 7 samples: security (jacc/jaspic): cascading failure, too much Swarm automagic (Done)
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-892[SWARM-892]] swarm.context.path wont work and getting errors with cdi fraction (Done)
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-877[SWARM-877]] IllegalStateException in Topology on Shutdown (Done)
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-638[SWARM-638]] Fraction auto-detection is performed when declaring dependent fractions with scope=provided  (Done)

=== Enhancement
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-943[SWARM-943]] Upgrade to wildfly-camel-4.4.0 (Done)
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-908[SWARM-908]] Separate generation of different config apis (Done)

=== Feature Request
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-893[SWARM-893]] Support Logging configuration via yaml, etc (Done)

=== Task
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-881[SWARM-881]] Remove `jgroups-module` (Done)
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-880[SWARM-880]] [spike] Quickstarts & Documentation (Done)
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-457[SWARM-457]] Remove dependency on springsource repo (Done)

== Resources

Per usual, we tend to hang out on `irc.freenode.net` in `#wildfly-swarm`.

All bug and feature-tracking is kept in http://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM[JIRA].

Examples are available in https://github.com/wildfly-swarm/wildfly-swarm-examples/tree/2017.1.1.

Documentation for this release is link:/documentation/2017-1-1[available].

== Thank you, Contributors!

We appreciate all of our contributors since the last release:

=== Documentation
* Heiko Braun
* Ken Finnigan
* Bob McWhirter
* Yeradis P. Barbosa Marrero
* Alex Soto

=== Examples
* Ken Finnigan
* Bob McWhirter
* James Netherton

=== Core
* Ken Finnigan
* George Gastaldi
* Bob McWhirter
* James Netherton
* Maciej Swiderski
* Ladislav Thon
