src/posts/announce-2016.9.adoc, before:

---
title: Announcing WildFly Swarm 2016.9
publishDate: 2016-09-07
modifyDate: 2016-09-07
author: The WildFly Swarm Team
layout: post.jade
draft: true
---

== It's September, so that means 2016.9 is out!

Continuing our trend of monthly releases, as discussed on
the https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/wildfly-swarm/c7X3Rfjng6Q[Google Group], 
we're pleased to release 2016.9, celebrating September, a month never
mentioned by Shakespeare in any of his plays.

=== What's New?

* WildFly 10.1.0.Final
* Continued MicroProfile support

=== What is WildFly Swarm?

WildFly Swarm is the decomposition and reconstitution of the popular
http://www.wildfly.org[WildFly Java Application Server] in order to support _just enough appserver_
for microservice type applications.

Each portion of the appserver is referred to as a _fraction_, which many times
maps to a `subsystem` from WildFly, but also may include other discrete chunks
of non-Java EE or WIldFly functionality, such as _Swagger_, _Jolokia_ or _NetflixOSS Ribbon_.

++++
<!-- more -->
++++

=== WildFly 10.1.0.Final 

This release of WildFly Swarm is now based upon WildFly 10.1.0.Final,
which brings about easy support for HTTP2, among other interesting things.


=== MicroProfile

While we added support for MicroProfile last month, this month we provide
a handy-dandy, downloadble server for your existing MicroProfile-complaint
`.war` applications.  You can link:/download/microprofile-hollowswarm[grab it]
and https://wildfly-swarm.gitbooks.io/wildfly-swarm-users-guide/content/v/2016.9/server/microprofile.html[read about how to use it].


=== Bugfixes

There are quite a few bugs fixed in this release since 2016.8.1.
Check out the full list of them below in the changelog.

== Changelog

Release notes for 2016.9 are available https://issues.jboss.org/secure/ReleaseNote.jspa?projectId=12317020&version=12330979[here].

=== Bug
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-657[SWARM-657]] can't run tests using the Arquillian Daemon when another application listens on port 12345
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-654[SWARM-654]] Hollow jars are not recognized as such
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-651[SWARM-651]] AmbiguousResolutionException when starting uberjar
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-650[SWARM-650]] Microprofile example fails to start
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-635[SWARM-635]] ExplodedImporter not available in main()
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-633[SWARM-633]] Arquillian container is not available in `bom` only `bom-all`
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-622[SWARM-622]] Remove reference to Fraction.InitContext in docs
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-620[SWARM-620]] Generator search doesn't recognize 'jax-'
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-615[SWARM-615]] Manual lookup of CDI-Instance doesn't work since 2016.8.1
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-614[SWARM-614]] Container provided dependencies cannot be declared as such for WAR
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-613[SWARM-613]] ModuleNotFoundException while run example with 2016.8.1
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-611[SWARM-611]] Weld warnings being displayed when starting a swarmed app
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-598[SWARM-598]] swarm jmx could be used only with jar packaging
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-596[SWARM-596]] @CreateSwarm fails when test class implements interfaces or extends classes
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-588[SWARM-588]] HealthCheck endpoint doesn't work when JAX-RS  javax.ws.rs.core.Application @ApplicationPath defined
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-579[SWARM-579]] @ConfigValue not working when running as an uberjar
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-575[SWARM-575]] swarmtool fails on javaee7 Stateless EJB example
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-572[SWARM-572]] BOM does not include version for arquillian-junit-container
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-571[SWARM-571]] Arquillian does not include src/main/resource/modules
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-564[SWARM-564]] Can't get underlying PostgreSQL database connection from datasource
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-549[SWARM-549]] Creating project from generator cannot compile as JARs cannot download
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-527[SWARM-527]] jboss-web defined context-root is ignored for health check resources

=== Enhancement
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-656[SWARM-656]] Stopping WF-Swarm shows ERROR in log: because no Bean Validation provider could be found
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-644[SWARM-644]] Change H2 Fraction stability to STABLE
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-639[SWARM-639]] Unify and Simplify the various .conf handling
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-631[SWARM-631]] @ConfigurationValue should not provide a default empty value()
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-621[SWARM-621]] Move :spi into main repository to simplify updating it
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-616[SWARM-616]] Filter the core WildFly Swarm jars from a user's WEB-INF/lib if they appear there
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-609[SWARM-609]] Add appropriate debug logging in container to provide information about what's happening
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-608[SWARM-608]] Display installed fractions with their stabilityLevel at boot
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-604[SWARM-604]] Running uber jar introduces redundant temp jar files in user tmp dir
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-534[SWARM-534]] Generator fractions selection
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-526[SWARM-526]] Define WildFly Swarm as product-name
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-492[SWARM-492]] Provide localized error messages and codes for Swarm exceptions

=== Feature Request
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-653[SWARM-653]] Create a MicroProfile distribution
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-628[SWARM-628]] Allow enabling HTTP/S by generating a local keystore for testing purposes
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-619[SWARM-619]] Enable HTTP/2 support in the existing HTTP(/S) connectors
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-293[SWARM-293]] Pass a WAR to Swarm for deployment
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-292[SWARM-292]] Ability to deploy as WAR or java -jar

=== Component Upgrade
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-617[SWARM-617]] Upgrade to WildFly 10.1.0.Final

=== Task
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-562[SWARM-562]] Add swarm.fraction.tags property to camel fraction pom.xml files

== Resources

Per usual, we tend to hang out on `irc.freenode.net` in `#wildfly-swarm`.

All bug and feature-tracking is kept in http://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM[JIRA].

Examples are available in https://github.com/wildfly-swarm/wildfly-swarm-examples/tree/2016.8.

Documentation for this release is link:/documentation/2016-8-1[available].

== Thank you, Contributors!

We appreciate all of our contributors since the last release:

=== Core
* Athou
* Heiko Braun
* Toby Crawley
* Ken Finnigan
* George Gastaldi
* Bob McWhirter
* Ladislav Thon
* Sebastien Blanc

=== Examples
* Ken Finnigan
* Bob McWhirter

Commit message:

Add notes about hollow and web-inf/lib

src/posts/announce-2016.9.adoc, after:

---
title: Announcing WildFly Swarm 2016.9
publishDate: 2016-09-07
modifyDate: 2016-09-07
author: The WildFly Swarm Team
layout: post.jade
draft: true
---

== It's September, so that means 2016.9 is out!

Continuing our trend of monthly releases, as discussed on
the https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/wildfly-swarm/c7X3Rfjng6Q[Google Group], 
we're pleased to release 2016.9, celebrating September, a month never
mentioned by Shakespeare in any of his plays.

=== What's New?

* WildFly 10.1.0.Final
* Continued MicroProfile support
* Cleaner WEB-INF/lib
* Hollow Uberjars

=== What is WildFly Swarm?

WildFly Swarm is the decomposition and reconstitution of the popular
http://www.wildfly.org[WildFly Java Application Server] in order to support _just enough appserver_
for microservice type applications.

Each portion of the appserver is referred to as a _fraction_, which many times
maps to a `subsystem` from WildFly, but also may include other discrete chunks
of non-Java EE or WIldFly functionality, such as _Swagger_, _Jolokia_ or _NetflixOSS Ribbon_.

++++
<!-- more -->
++++

=== WildFly 10.1.0.Final 

This release of WildFly Swarm is now based upon WildFly 10.1.0.Final,
which brings about easy support for HTTP2, among other interesting things.


=== MicroProfile

While we added support for MicroProfile last month, this month we provide
a handy-dandy, downloadble server for your existing MicroProfile-complaint
`.war` applications.  You can link:/download/microprofile-hollowswarm[grab it]
and https://wildfly-swarm.gitbooks.io/wildfly-swarm-users-guide/content/v/2016.9/server/microprofile.html[read about how to use it].

=== Cleaner `WEB-INF/lib`

A chronic problem we've seen in the past is that various usage scenarios
result in extraneous items appearing in your `WEB-INF/lib` directory. This
not only caused bloat, but also could cause errors, particularly regarding CDI.

The Maven plugin now will be smarter about what goes into `WEB-INF/lib`, and
actively repackages your `.war` file to ensure that it isn't polluted, in
the case of `compile` scoped transitive dependencies.

=== Hollow Uberjars

This release supports the concept of _hollow_ uberjars, which is a slightly
contradictory term, of course.  You can perform a build with the property
of `swarm.hollow` set to true, and the resulting uberjar will be capable
of running your application.  But it won't actually contain your application.

This is differentiated by the `-hollowswarm.jar` suffix on the resulting output.

This is the mechanism we used to provide the MicroProfile server mentioned above,
but it's possibly useful for your own purposes.  Simply pass your own `.war`
files for deployment on the command-line.  If you're using Linux containers, such
as Docker, this would allow you to put just enough app-server on one layer, while
stuffing your application `.war` on a higher one.

=== Bugfixes

There are quite a few bugs fixed in this release since 2016.8.1.
Check out the full list of them below in the changelog.

== Changelog

Release notes for 2016.9 are available https://issues.jboss.org/secure/ReleaseNote.jspa?projectId=12317020&version=12330979[here].

=== Bug
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-657[SWARM-657]] can't run tests using the Arquillian Daemon when another application listens on port 12345
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-654[SWARM-654]] Hollow jars are not recognized as such
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-651[SWARM-651]] AmbiguousResolutionException when starting uberjar
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-650[SWARM-650]] Microprofile example fails to start
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-635[SWARM-635]] ExplodedImporter not available in main()
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-633[SWARM-633]] Arquillian container is not available in `bom` only `bom-all`
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-622[SWARM-622]] Remove reference to Fraction.InitContext in docs
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-620[SWARM-620]] Generator search doesn't recognize 'jax-'
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-615[SWARM-615]] Manual lookup of CDI-Instance doesn't work since 2016.8.1
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-614[SWARM-614]] Container provided dependencies cannot be declared as such for WAR
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-613[SWARM-613]] ModuleNotFoundException while run example with 2016.8.1
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-611[SWARM-611]] Weld warnings being displayed when starting a swarmed app
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-598[SWARM-598]] swarm jmx could be used only with jar packaging
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-596[SWARM-596]] @CreateSwarm fails when test class implements interfaces or extends classes
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-588[SWARM-588]] HealthCheck endpoint doesn't work when JAX-RS  javax.ws.rs.core.Application @ApplicationPath defined
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-579[SWARM-579]] @ConfigValue not working when running as an uberjar
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-575[SWARM-575]] swarmtool fails on javaee7 Stateless EJB example
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-572[SWARM-572]] BOM does not include version for arquillian-junit-container
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-571[SWARM-571]] Arquillian does not include src/main/resource/modules
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-564[SWARM-564]] Can't get underlying PostgreSQL database connection from datasource
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-549[SWARM-549]] Creating project from generator cannot compile as JARs cannot download
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-527[SWARM-527]] jboss-web defined context-root is ignored for health check resources

=== Enhancement
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-656[SWARM-656]] Stopping WF-Swarm shows ERROR in log: because no Bean Validation provider could be found
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-644[SWARM-644]] Change H2 Fraction stability to STABLE
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-639[SWARM-639]] Unify and Simplify the various .conf handling
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-631[SWARM-631]] @ConfigurationValue should not provide a default empty value()
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-621[SWARM-621]] Move :spi into main repository to simplify updating it
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-616[SWARM-616]] Filter the core WildFly Swarm jars from a user's WEB-INF/lib if they appear there
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-609[SWARM-609]] Add appropriate debug logging in container to provide information about what's happening
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-608[SWARM-608]] Display installed fractions with their stabilityLevel at boot
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-604[SWARM-604]] Running uber jar introduces redundant temp jar files in user tmp dir
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-534[SWARM-534]] Generator fractions selection
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-526[SWARM-526]] Define WildFly Swarm as product-name
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-492[SWARM-492]] Provide localized error messages and codes for Swarm exceptions

=== Feature Request
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-653[SWARM-653]] Create a MicroProfile distribution
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-628[SWARM-628]] Allow enabling HTTP/S by generating a local keystore for testing purposes
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-619[SWARM-619]] Enable HTTP/2 support in the existing HTTP(/S) connectors
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-293[SWARM-293]] Pass a WAR to Swarm for deployment
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-292[SWARM-292]] Ability to deploy as WAR or java -jar

=== Component Upgrade
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-617[SWARM-617]] Upgrade to WildFly 10.1.0.Final

=== Task
* [https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM-562[SWARM-562]] Add swarm.fraction.tags property to camel fraction pom.xml files

== Resources

Per usual, we tend to hang out on `irc.freenode.net` in `#wildfly-swarm`.

All bug and feature-tracking is kept in http://issues.jboss.org/browse/SWARM[JIRA].

Examples are available in https://github.com/wildfly-swarm/wildfly-swarm-examples/tree/2016.8.

Documentation for this release is link:/documentation/2016-8-1[available].

== Thank you, Contributors!

We appreciate all of our contributors since the last release:

=== Core
* Athou
* Heiko Braun
* Toby Crawley
* Ken Finnigan
* George Gastaldi
* Bob McWhirter
* Ladislav Thon
* Sebastien Blanc

=== Examples
* Ken Finnigan
* Bob McWhirter
