src/posts/microprofile.adoc, before:

---
title: MicroProfile with WildFly Swarm
publishDate: 2016-09-15
modifyDate: 2016-09-15
author: Ken Finnigan
layout: post.jade
draft: true
---

=== What is MicroProfile?

http://microprofile.io[MicroProfile] is a new initiative from vendors and Enterprise Java community to foster rapid innovation around Microservices and Enterprise Java.
A MicroProfile 1.0 will be announced next week at JavaOne, which contains CDI, JAX-RS and JSON-P.
For the first release what is present was deliberately kept small.
Going beyond 1.0 the community will provide valuable ideas and feedback on both the types of technology that should be included within the MicroProfile,
as well as concepts, such as Service Discovery, that should be addressed.

Though MicroProfile focuses on Java EE specifications for 1.0, Java EE is not a requirement for what is produced from the MicroProfile.
There will likely be non Java EE frameworks and libraries that the community wishes to include to solve various use cases related to Microservices.

If you'd like to voice your opinions and participate in the community check out the discussions in the https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/microprofile[Google Group].

++++
<!-- more -->
++++

=== Using MicroProfile

So what do I need to do to create a MicroProfile project you might ask?

With WildFly Swarm there are two options:

. Project Generator
. Manually

==== Project Generator

Head over to http://wildfly-swarm.io/generator/ and customize the group and artifact ids that are automatically set for you.
Then start typing _MicroProfile_ into the dependencies box and it will pop up in a list, so select it.

Next we click "Generate Project" and it will provide a zip containing `pom.xml` and a basic JAX-RS resource as a starting point.

==== Manually

Create a regular Maven project with _war_ packaging type and then add the following into `pom.xml`:

.Import WF Swarm BOM
[source,xml]
----
<properties>
  <version.wildfly.swarm>2016.9</version.wildfly.swarm>
</properties>

<dependencyManagement>
  <dependencies>
    <dependency>
      <groupId>org.wildfly.swarm</groupId>
      <artifactId>bom-all</artifactId>
      <version>${version.wildfly.swarm}</version>
      <scope>import</scope>
      <type>pom</type>
    </dependency>
  </dependencies>
</dependencyManagement>
----

NOTE: We use the `bom-all` dependency as `microprofile` is treated as unstable as MicroProfile 1.0 is a limited release,
by design, as we anticipate rapid expansion of features moving forward.
In subsequent releases it will become stable and `bom` can be used instead.

.WF Swarm plugin
[source,xml]
----
<build>
  <plugins>
    <plugin>
      <groupId>org.wildfly.swarm</groupId>
      <artifactId>wildfly-swarm-plugin</artifactId>
      <version>${version.wildfly.swarm}</version>
      <executions>
        <execution>
          <goals>
            <goal>package</goal>
          </goals>
        </execution>
      </executions>
    </plugin>
  </plugins>
</build>
----

.Dependencies
[source,xml]
----
<dependencies>
  <!-- Wildfly Swarm Fractions -->
  <dependency>
    <groupId>org.wildfly.swarm</groupId>
    <artifactId>microprofile</artifactId>
  </dependency>
</dependencies>
----

NOTE: We don't need a `provided` dependency on Java EE 7 APIs as they are transitively brought in via `microprofile`.

==== Starting WildFly Swarm

Whichever of the above methods you used to create your project, you are able to run it with:

[source,bash]
----
mvn wildfly-swarm:run
----

This is the quickest way to start the project without needing to build the uber jar first.

If the project was created manually there aren't any endpoints we can test with, but it will have started without error.
If the generator was used, use a browser to access http://localhost:8080/hello and you will see the Resource return a message.

Now lets stop the server with _Ctrl+c_ and we will create a JAX-RS resource.

NOTE: If you used the generator you can remove the code that was generated for you as we will be creating a new Resource in the next section.

=== JAX-RS Resource

First thing we need is a JAX-RS Resource that provides us with an endpoint we can access in the browser.

Let's create the following class in the `org.example.microprofile` package:

.MyTimeResource
[source,java]
----
@Path("/")
public class MyTimeResource {
    @GET
    @Path("/datetime")
    @Produces(MediaType.TEXT_PLAIN)
    public String getTime() {
        return LocalDateTime.now().toString();
    }
}
----

Now if we start WildFly Swarm with:

[source,bash]
----
mvn wildfly-swarm:run
----

open http://localhost:8080/datetime in a browser and see a response like:

[source]
--
2016-09-14T15:37:22.243
--

=== Bring in some CDI

We've got a basic JAX-RS Resource, let's add some injection.
We will keep it simple and create a class to produce a `LocalDateTime` instance for us:

.DateProducer
[source,java]
----
@ApplicationScoped
public class DateProducer {
    @Produces
    LocalDateTime getDateTimeNow() {
        return LocalDateTime.now();
    }
}
----

Now we can update the `MyTimeResource` to use it:

.MyTimeResource
[source,java]
----
@Path("/")
public class MyTimeResource {
    @Inject
    LocalDateTime dateTime;

    @GET
    @Path("/datetime")
    @Produces(MediaType.TEXT_PLAIN)
    public String getTime() {
        return dateTime.toString();
    }
}
----

If we now go to http://localhost:8080/datetime it will give us the same information as before.
Though without a time machine it will display a different time!

=== JSON Processing (JSON-P)

Now it's time to bring the final piece of MicroProfile in with JSON-P!

Let's add another method to our JAX-RS Resource that returns a `JsonObject` that we construct from the `LocalDateTime` instance we injected:

.MyTimeResource
[source,java]
----
@Path("/")
public class MyTimeResource {
    private static final JsonBuilderFactory jsonFactory = Json.createBuilderFactory(null);

    @Inject
    LocalDateTime dateTime;

    @GET
    @Path("datetimejson")
    @Produces(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON)
    public JsonObject getDateTimeJson() {
        return jsonFactory.createObjectBuilder()
                .add("date", jsonFactory.createObjectBuilder()
                        .add("dayOfWeek", dateTime.getDayOfWeek().name())
                        .add("dayOfMonth", dateTime.getDayOfMonth())
                        .add("month", dateTime.getMonth().name())
                        .add("monthNumber", dateTime.getMonthValue())
                        .add("year", dateTime.getYear())
                )
                .add("time", jsonFactory.createObjectBuilder()
                        .add("hour", dateTime.getHour())
                        .add("minutes", dateTime.getMinute())
                        .add("seconds", dateTime.getSecond())
                        .add("nanoseconds", dateTime.getNano())
                )
                .build();
    }
}
----

Fire up WildFly Swarm again and open http://localhost:8080/datetimejson in a browser and we see output similar to:

[source]
--
{
  "date":{
    "dayOfWeek":"WEDNESDAY",
    "dayOfMonth":14,
    "month":"SEPTEMBER",
    "monthNumber":9,
    "year":2016
  },
  "time":{
    "hour":22,
    "minutes":19,
    "seconds":51,
    "nanoseconds":229000000
  }
}
--

=== Conclusion

We've now taken a whirlwind tour of what MicroProfile provides for us as developers,
and created a simple RESTful endpoint service with WildFly Swarm that uses MicroProfile.

As MicroProfile expands to encompass additional technologies and features,
be sure to come back and check out more posts on MicroProfile.

Commit message:

Update manual method of project creation to include creating JAX-RS Resource that is generated

src/posts/microprofile.adoc, after:

---
title: MicroProfile with WildFly Swarm
publishDate: 2016-09-15
modifyDate: 2016-09-15
author: Ken Finnigan
layout: post.jade
draft: true
---

=== What is MicroProfile?

http://microprofile.io[MicroProfile] is a new initiative the Enterprise Java community to foster rapid innovation around Microservices and Enterprise Java.
A MicroProfile 1.0 will be announced next week at JavaOne, which contains CDI, JAX-RS and JSON-P.
For the first release what is present was deliberately kept small.
Going beyond 1.0 the community will provide valuable ideas and feedback on both the types of technology that should be included within the MicroProfile,
as well as concepts, such as Service Discovery, that should be addressed.

Though MicroProfile focuses on Java EE specifications for 1.0, Java EE is not a requirement for what is produced from the MicroProfile.
There will likely be non Java EE frameworks and libraries that the community wishes to include to solve various use cases related to Microservices.

If you'd like to voice your opinions and participate in the community check out the discussions in the https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/microprofile[Google Group].

++++
<!-- more -->
++++

=== Using MicroProfile

So what do I need to do to create a MicroProfile project you might ask?

With WildFly Swarm there are two options:

. Project Generator
. Manually

==== Project Generator

Head over to http://wildfly-swarm.io/generator/ and customize the group and artifact ids that are automatically set for you.
Then start typing _MicroProfile_ into the dependencies box and it will pop up in a list, so select it.

Next we click "Generate Project" and it will provide a zip containing `pom.xml` and a basic JAX-RS resource as a starting point.

Once downloaded, unpack the zip and open it in your favorite IDE and check out the RESTful endpoint defined within `HelloWorldEndpoint`.

==== Manually

Create a regular Maven project with _war_ packaging type and then add the following into `pom.xml`:

.Import WF Swarm BOM
[source,xml]
----
<properties>
  <version.wildfly.swarm>2016.9</version.wildfly.swarm>
</properties>

<dependencyManagement>
  <dependencies>
    <dependency>
      <groupId>org.wildfly.swarm</groupId>
      <artifactId>bom-all</artifactId>
      <version>${version.wildfly.swarm}</version>
      <scope>import</scope>
      <type>pom</type>
    </dependency>
  </dependencies>
</dependencyManagement>
----

NOTE: We use the `bom-all` dependency as `microprofile` is treated as unstable as MicroProfile 1.0 is a limited release,
by design, as we anticipate rapid expansion of features moving forward.
In subsequent releases it will become stable and `bom` can be used instead.

.WF Swarm plugin
[source,xml]
----
<build>
  <plugins>
    <plugin>
      <groupId>org.wildfly.swarm</groupId>
      <artifactId>wildfly-swarm-plugin</artifactId>
      <version>${version.wildfly.swarm}</version>
      <executions>
        <execution>
          <goals>
            <goal>package</goal>
          </goals>
        </execution>
      </executions>
    </plugin>
  </plugins>
</build>
----

.Dependencies
[source,xml]
----
<dependencies>
  <!-- Wildfly Swarm Fractions -->
  <dependency>
    <groupId>org.wildfly.swarm</groupId>
    <artifactId>microprofile</artifactId>
  </dependency>
</dependencies>
----

NOTE: We don't need a `provided` dependency on Java EE 7 APIs as API dependencies for CDI, JAX-RS and JSON-P are transitively brought in via `microprofile`.

Now it's time to create our first RESTful endpoint:

.HelloWorldEndpoint
[source,java]
----
@Path("/hello")
public class HelloWorldEndpoint {

  @GET
  @Produces("text/plain")
  public Response doGet() {
    return Response.ok("Hello from WildFly Swarm!").build();
  }
}
----

Here we use the `Response` object to construct and build an HTTP Response to be returned to the client.

==== Starting WildFly Swarm

Whichever of the above methods you used to create your project both are identical and can be run with:

[source,bash]
----
mvn wildfly-swarm:run
----

This is the quickest way to start the project without needing to build the uber jar first.

Use a browser to access http://localhost:8080/hello and you will see the Resource return _Hello from WildFly Swarm!_.

Now lets stop the server with _Ctrl+c_ and we will create a new JAX-RS resource.

=== JAX-RS Resource

First thing we need is a JAX-RS Resource that provides us with an endpoint we can access in the browser.

Let's create the following class in the `org.example.microprofile` package:

.MyTimeResource
[source,java]
----
@Path("/")
public class MyTimeResource {
    @GET
    @Path("/datetime")
    @Produces(MediaType.TEXT_PLAIN)
    public String getTime() {
        return LocalDateTime.now().toString();
    }
}
----

Now if we start WildFly Swarm with:

[source,bash]
----
mvn wildfly-swarm:run
----

open http://localhost:8080/datetime in a browser and see a response like:

[source]
--
2016-09-14T15:37:22.243
--

=== Bring in some CDI

We've got a basic JAX-RS Resource, let's add some injection.
We will keep it simple and create a class to produce a `LocalDateTime` instance for us:

.DateProducer
[source,java]
----
@ApplicationScoped
public class DateProducer {
    @Produces
    LocalDateTime getDateTimeNow() {
        return LocalDateTime.now();
    }
}
----

Now we can update the `MyTimeResource` to use it:

.MyTimeResource
[source,java]
----
@Path("/")
public class MyTimeResource {
    @Inject
    LocalDateTime dateTime;

    @GET
    @Path("/datetime")
    @Produces(MediaType.TEXT_PLAIN)
    public String getTime() {
        return dateTime.toString();
    }
}
----

If we now go to http://localhost:8080/datetime it will give us the same information as before.
Though without a time machine it will display a different time!

=== JSON Processing (JSON-P)

Now it's time to bring the final piece of MicroProfile in with JSON-P!

Let's add another method to our JAX-RS Resource that returns a `JsonObject` that we construct from the `LocalDateTime` instance we injected:

.MyTimeResource
[source,java]
----
@Path("/")
public class MyTimeResource {
    private static final JsonBuilderFactory jsonFactory = Json.createBuilderFactory(null);

    @Inject
    LocalDateTime dateTime;

    @GET
    @Path("datetimejson")
    @Produces(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON)
    public JsonObject getDateTimeJson() {
        return jsonFactory.createObjectBuilder()
                .add("date", jsonFactory.createObjectBuilder()
                        .add("dayOfWeek", dateTime.getDayOfWeek().name())
                        .add("dayOfMonth", dateTime.getDayOfMonth())
                        .add("month", dateTime.getMonth().name())
                        .add("monthNumber", dateTime.getMonthValue())
                        .add("year", dateTime.getYear())
                )
                .add("time", jsonFactory.createObjectBuilder()
                        .add("hour", dateTime.getHour())
                        .add("minutes", dateTime.getMinute())
                        .add("seconds", dateTime.getSecond())
                        .add("nanoseconds", dateTime.getNano())
                )
                .build();
    }
}
----

Fire up WildFly Swarm again and open http://localhost:8080/datetimejson in a browser and we see output similar to:

[source]
--
{
  "date":{
    "dayOfWeek":"WEDNESDAY",
    "dayOfMonth":14,
    "month":"SEPTEMBER",
    "monthNumber":9,
    "year":2016
  },
  "time":{
    "hour":22,
    "minutes":19,
    "seconds":51,
    "nanoseconds":229000000
  }
}
--

=== Conclusion

We've now taken a whirlwind tour of what MicroProfile provides for us as developers,
and created a simple RESTful endpoint service with WildFly Swarm that uses MicroProfile.

As MicroProfile expands to encompass additional technologies and features,
be sure to come back and check out more posts on MicroProfile.
